# ARA Experiments

### "Hello World!" Experiment

Let's start again by repeating the ["Hello World!" Experiment](https://arawireless.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ara_experiments/ara_hello_world.html#hello-world-experiment) at the Agronomy Farm to see if there have been any updates to the list of containers available and/or ability to access its GPUs. 

After you login to the [ARA Portal](https://portal.arawireless.org) and have access to the [OpenStack Horizon Dashboad](https://docs.openstack.org/horizon/latest), set the [**Timezone**](https://arawireless.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started/started_with_ara_portal.html#setting-the-user-time-zone) that you will use to specify the start and end dates and times for ARA leases. It's best to use your local timezone. Unfortuantely, however, the **Timezone** must be reset upon each login from its default [UTC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coordinated_Universal_Time) setting as your choice of timezone is only stored temporarily within your current broswer session and not in your ARA user account configuration. 

To set the **Timezone**, select the *Settings* option from the drop-down menu associated with your username and the user icon in the upper right hand side of the dashboard. Once selected, the *User Settings* category will be displayed. Choose your local **Timezone** from the drop-down list available and then click the **Save** button to complete your change(s).

- **Language**: English (en)
- **Timezone**: UTC -07:00: United States (Los Angeles) Time
- **Items Per Page**: 20
- **Log Lines Per Instance**: 35

Any time you want to utilize the specialized resources made available as part of ARA, you must create a reservation and lease the those resources for a specified amount of time. 

To create a lease, first navigate to the *Project* tab and select *Reservations*, then click on the *Leases* category. Find the **+ create Lease** button on the right hand side of the *Leases* page and click it. A *Create Lease* pop-up window will be displayed. The *General* tab has three free-form text fields:

- **Lease Name**: User-provided name for the lease, which must be unique across ARA 
- **Start Date**: Start date (and time) of the resource reservation and lease
- **End Date**: End date (and time) of the resource reservation and lease
  
Start by providing a **Lease Name**. Note, however, the name cannot contain certain characters. e.g., dashes are prohibited, but underscores are allowed. Next, enter the **Start Date** and **End Date** for the lease. The format to use is YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM and the maximum lease time for any reservation is up to 5 hours. If you do not specify a specific **Start Date** and **End Date** for the lease, the default lease time is 2 hours starting immediately (or when possible; i.e., if and when the resources requested are available). 

After providing the *General* lease settings, click the **Next** button in the bottom right of the pop-up window to move to the *Resources* tab. Here, you will be presented with 3 drop-down lists

- **Site**: ARA site where the requested resources are located 
- **Resource Type**: List of available resource types at the selected site
- **Device Type**: Specific type of device requested
  
and one free-form text field

- **Device ID**: Specific ID associated with the requsted device

To run this experiment on the Agronomy Farm's Edge Compute Node, select:

- **Site**: Agronomy Farm
- **Resource Type**: Compute Node
- **Device Type**: Edge
- **Device ID**: 000

The list of all available resources can be found in the *Project -> Summary* tab by clicking on *Overview*  category. A similar list is available in the ARA documentation [here](https://arawireless.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ara_technical_manual/ara_resource_specification.html).

Once the lease **Status** becomes *Active*, you may procceed with creating a container. To create the container, select the *Containers* category from the *Project -> Container* tab of the dashboard and then click on the **Create Container** button. A *Create Container* pop-up window will be displayed. The initial *Info* tab that the pop-up window opens with has 3 free-form text fields

- **Name**: User-provided name for the container instance to be created and run
- **Image**: Name (and tag) of the specific [arawirelesshub](https://hub.docker.com/u/arawirelesshub) container image available from DockerHub
- **Command**: Command that will be run within the container once it starts

two drop-down lists

- **Image Driver**: Selects the source of the container images; e.g. DockerHub
- **Image Pull Policy**: Sets the pull policy for the container --- *If not present*, *Always*, or *Never*

and one checkbox button

- **Start container after creation**

At this time, you can only start your containers from the official container **Image**(s)  published by ARA and made available from the [arawirelesshub](https://hub.docker.com/u/arawirelesshub) community user ccount on DockerHub. For this experiment, choose the standarad Ubuntu 22.04 LTS container `arawirelesshub/ara-ubuntu:22.04` as the **Image** and set the **Command** to `/bin/bash` for interactive use. 

- **Name**: hello-world-ubuntu
- **Image**: arawirelesshub/ara-ubuntu:22.04
- **Image Driver**: Docker Hub
- **Image Pull Policy**: Always
- **Command**: /bin/bash
- [ ] **Start container after creation**


