# How to get help from HPC user support?

Once you run into a problem you cannot seem to resolve yourself, here is how to ask for help from your HPC user support team.

1. Find out how to contact your HPC user support team. You can typically contact them via either a web-based (form) application or via email. 
2. However, before contacting your user support team, make sure you gather the following information:


# [COMPLECS: HPC Security and Getting Help](https://sdsc.edu/event_items/202402-HPC-Security-and-Getting-Help.html)
- Maybe too much material about interacting with Slurm, lmod, etc for a new user to comprehend how they fit into each senario
- Not enough detail about how to work through a specific example problem, then contact user support with all the information that is necessary
- Slurm-centric examples
- Maybe reduce to 2 common example problem end users contact us about and then walk through each example
- Maybe not enough emphasis on how and when to user search engine, when to contact software developers, contact community forum, contact HPC user support.
- Were the headline statistics on the ACCESS slide acuate? Were they only for Expanse? 
- Should security come first, before getting help?
- Why is the login problem used as a senario in the security section?
- Again, maybe too much discusssion about specific problems ACCESS users have, not general security issues with login
- Why not show, rather than tell users how to create secure SSH keys? Most have probably never seen them used before? i.e., show them the advantage of using SSH keys --- sounds too complicated to look into, unless you make it worth their time. 
