# ARA + ICICLE Demonstration Workflow

The primary aim of this initial demonstration will be to simulate real-time field data collection, data transfer, and model inference on the data using the ARA compute and network infrastucuture. The secondary aim will be to transfer the collected data back to Jetstream2's OpenStack Swift object storage, such that the data can then be made accessible for model retraining on one of the HPC systems available to ICICLE.

The demonstration will begin by staging a test dataset on one of the User Equipment (UE) compute nodes at the Agronomy Farm.

- AgronomyFarm-UE-[000/001/010/020]

The dataset will be transferred from the UE to Argonomy Farm's Edge Node (EN) via AraRAN, where an inference task will then be run on the collected dataset utilizing its NVIDIA GPU. If the ICICLE Model Commons is available for testing at the time of the demonstration, it will be utilized store and host the demonstration model used in this inference task prior to downlaoding the model and its runtime components to the EN.

- AgronomyFarm-Edge-000

Once the inference task has been completed, the dataset and inference results will then be packaged and uploaded to Jetstream's object store, where it will be made available for model retraining. If time permits, we will attempt data upload routes both via the fiber and wireless backhaul options available. 

The first deomontration of this workflow will be orchestrated manually via the ARA Portal and direct SSH login to each compute node and device type. Once successfully run manually, we will begin to integrate Tapis to help further automate the demonstration workflow. Additional automation via Ansible may also be required as there is currently no access to the OpenStack APIs on ARA.
