# ICICLE - AgWireless26 - Weekly Meeting

## Attendance
- [x] Marty
- [x] Sarath
- [x] Elisabeth
- [x] Brijesh
- [x] Harikesh
- [x] Ash

## Previous Meeting Notes
- https://github.com/mkandes/notes/blob/main/2026/06/19.md

## Agenda

### 1. Deadline 
- [AgWirless26](https://arawireless.org/agwireless26): Monday, August 31st (52 days)

### 2. Software Development, Testing, and Release
- ADIx - Development still underway; expected to be ready for initial deployment testing on ARA starting July 31st (21 days)
- KaiAir - Development still underway; expected to be ready for end-user deployment testing on ARA starting July 31st (21 days)
- Digital Ag - ?

### 3. Experiment Readiness
[OCUDU with OpenAirInterface nrUE (Indoor/Sandbox and Outdoor)](https://arawireless.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ara_experiments/araran_experiments/ORAN_OCUDU_OAI_nrUE.html#araran-experiment-oran-ocudu-oai-nrue)
  - Status of indoor/sandbox experiment? Maybe working, but don't test anything there. 
  - Status of outdoor experiment? Get apps ready for outdoor only testing. 
  - This experiment uses a software OAI nrUE. If you instead want to drive the OCUDU gNB with a COTS Quectel UE and an O-RAN near-RT-RIC / xApp, see OCUDU Prototyping with O-RAN Compliant nearRT-RIC and xApps.
     - What UE do we plan to use for KaiAir? Target OAI rnUE. 

### 4. Digital Ag Demo Discussion

- Move data from edge device to cloud/HPC systems via KaiAir.
- Move (new) models back to the edge via KaiAir.
- Model retraining workflow.
- Edge hardware required?
  - Jetson nano - OAI nrUE not tested on ARM yet, but should/might work?
- Data?
  - Outlier image data (e.g., weed detection, corn residue, etc).
- Inference on the edge? Or in the cloud?
- Elisbeth showed a mock up of a demo with drone UE streaming video (upload-only). Bidirectional communication with KaiAir not yet tested. 

### 5. To Do Items
- Sarath will check on purchasing a Jetson nano for testing on ARA OAI nrUE
- Harikesh will talk with Hari about finalizing demo plans
- Marty still needs to update Heat Orchestraction Templates and transition ADIx software stack to OCUDU software containers. 

# References:
- https://ocudu.org
