# REHS 2026 @ SDSC/UCSD - Regular Meeting - Benchmarking AI Inference on High-Performance Computing Systems

## Attendance

- [x] Marty
- [x] Shreyas
- [x] Shriya
- [x] Brian
- [ ] Ryan

## Agenda

### 1. Announcements
- Reminder: I will be back in San Diego starting Friday, July 17th thru Wednesday, July 22nd
- Next meeting: Monday, July 20th @ 11AM PT (in-person)

### 2. Benchmark Updates
- Marty: Completed `Offline` scenario for the ResNet-50 benchmark on Expanse's V100, A100, and H100 GPUs with ONNX Runtime v1.17.3. Running equivalent CPU-only benchmarks now. I plan to repeat each set with ONNX Runtime v1.26.0 to see if there are any performance improvements. I will then begin running the `Server` scenario. 
- Shreyas: Accuracy + Performance run for `SingleStream` WAN benchmark on A100. Did not move back to V100. Move on to `Offline` scenario. ~9 min per video on A100 --> ~38 hour runtime for the netire benchamrk. 
- Shriya: Completed V100 results with 3 different fp+batch configs. `Offline` scenario. Try out A100 GPUs to see what kind of performance improvement you get. 
- Brian: Completed V100 + A100 `Offline` scenario. Accuracy run was dipping below minimum requirement with modified code. `Server` scenario is next step, until H100s are available. 
- Ryan: Email for status update.

 ### 3. Poster & Data Visualization
 - Any updates from Ange about the poster session + timeline? 
 - Shriya will forward me Ange's email.
 - Planning ahead for next week: Everyone try and organize a plot of their data. Maybe base a figure of your data on the official visualization platform example.
 - Include comparative results for similarish hardware from the offical mlperf resutls published for your benchmark. 

 ### 4. Odds & Ends
 - Create a GitHub repo to publish your code + results. 

 

# References
- https://mlperf-dashboard-final-50577619532.us-west1.run.app/
