# Getting Started with ARA

Reservation leases are sensitive to time when scheduling the resources. Set your local timezone to simplify requests.

https://arawireless.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started/started_with_ara_portal.html#setting-the-user-time-zone

First lease created successfully.

```
Lease Detail
Lease
Lease Name
icicle_hello_world_0
Lease ID
2d5b8ae0-8386-4656-93d8-24be62a95e9f
Project Id
3f7f6b770db14588b2a0f4d2ca98ef17
Start date
2024-03-11 22:55 EDT
End date
2024-03-11 23:55 EDT
Status
ACTIVE
Degraded
No
Reservations
Reservation ID
f9d4cc42-2249-4b17-b499-14b5f8a7a494
Status
active
Site
AgronomyFarm
Resource Type
ComputeNode
Device Type
Edge
Device ID
000
```

This might be a problem: *Please note that ARA portal allows only containers from arawirelesshub DockerHub repository.*

It seems like there may currently be no OpenStack API access to ARA. i.e., it is all Horizon/GUI-driven for provisioning. 

The following note about leases appears to be incorrect: *If you leave the Start Date and End Date blank, the default lease time is considered as 2 hours.* Observe explicit start and end times required to create lease.

Similarly, devices IDs appear to need to be explicitly requested as well, while the documentation states: *If the field is kept blank, any free node satisfying the Site, Resource Type, and Device Type attributes is reserved at random.*

Does this container-based deployment approach allow injection of cloud-init scripts? https://cloudinit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/

Are the default ssh-keygen settings sufficient these days? https://arawireless.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started/ara_portal_extras.html#ara-jumpbox
Also might want to change how commands are displayed? i.e., do not start with a #

Is there any limit to container size?

Does the console always lockup when attempting to use vim? Is this an issue with its caching its swap files?
